---
jupytext:
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.11.5
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
  
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 300
---
(#TOC-metadata-standards-list-of-tables-and-list-of-figures)=
# List of Tables & List of Figures

(#TOC-metadata-standards-list-of-tables)=
## List of Tables

[**Appendix A - Table A1.** Metadata crosswalk table showing the corresponding fields used in this Alberta Metadata Standard (2023), and other standards used in Western Canada. An asterisk (\*) denotes an optional field. Hierarchical levels are shown in bold font above each section.](#metadata-standards-appendix-a-tables-a1)

[**Appendix A - Table A2.** Overview of the structure of the RCSC et al's Remote Camera Metadata Template (2023) including both the data fields recommended by the Remote Camera Survey Guidelines: Guidelines for Western Canada (RCSC et al., 2023) and these metadata standards.](#metadata-standards-appendix-a-tables-a2)


(#TOC-metadata-standards-list-of-figures)=
## List of Figures

[**Figure 1.** Hierarchical structure of remote camera data in the Remote Camera Metadata Standards for Alberta. Based on Forrester et al. (2016), [Wildlife Insights Minimum Metadata Standards](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Jg-WybmVeGlWGrbPpwuwJCgranOV1r3M_LrzELttfK0/edit#gid=412365965)
(Ahumada et al., 2019) and the [B.C. Metadata Standards](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/environment/natural-resource-stewardship/nr-laws-policy/risc/wcmp_v1.pdf) (RISC, 2019).](#metadata-standards-figure-1)

[**Figure 2.** Example of the recommended file structure and naming conventions for a project that consisted of two study areas, each with one survey and each survey with two camera locations with one deployment period and 2 sequences per camera location.](#metadata-standards-figure-2)

[**Figure 3.** The hierarchical structure of remote camera data in the Remote Camera Metadata Standards for Alberta (based on Forrester et al. [2016], [Wildlife Insights Minimum Metadata Standards](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Jg-WybmVeGlWGrbPpwuwJCgranOV1r3M_LrzELttfK0/edit#gid=412365965)
[Ahumada et al., 2019] and the [B.C. Metadata Standards](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/environment/natural-resource-stewardship/nr-laws-policy/risc/wcmp_v1.pdf) [RISC, 2019]) and the linkages with and within the four CSVs included in these metadata standards ("Project CSV," "Sample
Station/Camera Location CSV," "Deployment CSV," and the "Image/Sequence CSV").](#metadata-standards-figure-3)