---
jupytext:
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: '1.16'
    jupytext_version: 1.16.1
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
editor_options:
  markdown:
    wrap: none
---

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment)=

# 8.0 Deployment

A [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) is a unique placement of a camera in space and time (recorded as "Deployment Name"). There may be multiple [deployments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) for one [camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location). [Deployments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) are often considered as the time between [visits](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#visit) to a [camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location) (i.e., [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) to service, service to service, and service to retrieval). Any change to [camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location), sampling period, camera equipment (e.g., [Trigger Sensitivity setting](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_trigger_sensitivity), becomes non-functioning), and/or conditions (e.g., not [baited](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#baitlure_bait) then not [baited](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#baitlure_bait) later; camera SD card replaced) should be documented as a unique [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment).

[Metadata](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#metadata) information associated with the [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) level of the hierarchy ([Figure 1](/2_metadata-standards/2_3.0_Metadata-Standards.md#TOC_md_standards_fig_1)) can be grouped into the following subsections:

-   [Visit Metadata](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#visit_metadata) (collected at deployment and [service/retrieval](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval))

-   **Equipment Information** (collected at both deployment and [service/retrieval](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval); fields vary by [visit](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#visit) type)

-   **Camera Settings** (collected at deployment)

-   **Camera Placement** (collected at deployment)

-   **Site Characteristics** (collected at deployment)

-   **Equipment Checks** (collected at both deployment and [service/retrieval](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval))

-   **Image Set Information** (collected as a combination of information from [deployment metadata](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_metadata) and [service/retrieval metadata](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval_metadata))

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_visit_metadata)=

## 8.1 Deployment - Visit Metadata

Visit metadata that should be collected each time a [camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location) is [visited](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#visit) to deploy, service or retrieve a camera. The relevant data that should be collected may differ depending on the type of [visit](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#visit).

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_id)=

### 8.1.1 Deployment Name

A unique alphanumeric identifier for a unique camera deployed during a specific [survey](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#survey) period (ideally recorded as: "[Camera Location Name](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location_name)"*"Deployment Start Date" (or ...*"Deployment End Date") (e.g., "bh1_17-Jul-2018" or "bh1_17-Jul-2018_21-Jan-2019"). Alternative naming conventions may be used, but the goal should be to minimize duplicate [Image Names](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#image_name).

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_crew_and_serviceretrieval_crew)=

### 8.1.2 Deployment Crew and Service/Retrieval Crew

The first and last names of all the individuals who collected data during the [deployment visit](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_visit) ("[Deployment Crew](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_crew)") and [service/retrieval visit](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval_visit) ("[Service/Retrieval Crew](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval_crew)").

Some platforms (e.g., FWMIS) collect this information in one field (e.g., "Crew Names") rather than two. In this case, enter the data in a single data row (each row represents a [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment)) and in a format that will make it easy to distinguish between the [Deployment Crew](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_crew) and the [Service/Retrieval Crew](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval_crew) (e.g., "[Deployment Crew](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_crew)[John Smith, Jimmy Smith], [Service/Retrieval Crew](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval_crew)[Susie Smith]").

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_start_date_time)=

### 8.1.3 Deployment Start Date Time (DD-MMM-YYYY HH:MM:SS)

The date and time that a camera was placed for a specific [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) (e.g., 17-Jan-2018 10:34:22). The [Deployment Start Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_start_date_time) may not coincide with when the first image or video was collected (i.e., the [Image Set Start Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#image_set_start_date_time)). Recording this field allows users to account for [deployments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) where no images were captured and to confirm the first date and time a camera was active.

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_end_date_time)=

### 8.1.4 Deployment End Date Time (DD-MMM-YYYY HH:MM:SS)

The date and time that the data was retrieved for a specific [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) (e.g., 27-Jan-2019 23:00:00). The [Deployment End Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_end_date_time) may not coincide with when the last image or video was collected (i.e., the [Image Set End Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#image_set_end_date_time)). Recording this field allows users to account for [deployments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) where no images were captured and to confirm the last date and time that the camera was active.

If a camera fails (stops functioning), the [Deployment End Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_end_date_time) should be the date the camera was last known to be operational. For example, if a camera was not operational when it was retrieved on May 5th, the [Deployment End Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_end_date_time) should be reported as the date and time that the last image or video was captured (e.g., 28-Apr-2023 12:36:27).

On rare occasions, a camera may be non-functioning in the middle of a [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) period but functioning at the start and end of the deployment period (e.g., snow covered for a few days). In this case, two unique [deployments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) should be entered for periods before and after the period the camera was not functioning and with unique [start](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_start_date_time) and [end dates times](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_end_date_time).

To accurately measure [survey](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#survey) effort in the event of camera failure, we recommend that users set the camera's [Trigger Mode(s)](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_trigger_modes) field to "[Time-lapse Image](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#timelapse_image)" to capture at least one image at a consistent time each day. This will allow users to more accurately determine failure dates. For example, it may be difficult to determine a failure date for a camera that is only occasionally [triggered](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#trigger_event) by animals (e.g., on a weekly basis). Taking an image at a prescribed interval also provides a consistent record of site conditions over time (e.g., snow cover, vegetation growth).

(#TOC_md_standards_visit_comments)=

### 8.1.5 Visit Comments (optional)

Describe any additional details about a [visit](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#visit) to a [camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location) (e.g., camera snow-covered; [Remaining Battery (%)](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#remaining_battery_percent); brand of [lure](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#baitlure_lure) reapplied during a [service/retrieval visit](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval_visit)).

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_equipment_information)=

## 8.2 Deployment - Equipment Information

(#TOC_md_standards_camera_id)=

### 8.2.1 Camera ID

A unique alphanumeric ID (e.g., "reconpc900_1") for the camera that distinguishes it from other cameras of the same [Camera Make](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_make) or [Camera Model](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_model).

Referred to as "New [Camera ID](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_id)" on the Camera [Service/Retrieval Field Datasheet](/1_survey-guidelines/1_10.2_AppendixA-Field-Datasheets.md#datasheet_service_retrieval) when a camera is replaced. Leave blank if the camera was not replaced.

(#TOC_md_standards_camera_make)=

### 8.2.2 Camera Make

The make of a particular camera (i.e., the manufacturer, e.g., “Reconyx” or “Bushnell”). The [Camera Make](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_make) is particularly important information for analyses where different types of cameras may result in variable detection probabilities.

Referred to as "New [Camera Make](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_make)" on the Camera [Service/Retrieval Field Datasheet](/1_survey-guidelines/1_10.2_AppendixA-Field-Datasheets.md#datasheet_service_retrieval) when a camera is replaced at a [sample station](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#sample_station)/[camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location). Leave blank for these fields if the camera is not replaced.

(#TOC_md_standards_camera_model)=

### 8.2.3 Camera Model

The model number or name of a particular camera (e.g., "PC900" or "Trophy Cam HD"). The [Camera Model](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_model) is particularly important information for analyses where different types of cameras may result in variable [detection probabilities](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#detection_probability).

Referred to as "New [Camera Model](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_model)" on the Camera [Service/Retrieval Field Datasheet](/1_survey-guidelines/1_10.2_AppendixA-Field-Datasheets.md#datasheet_service_retrieval) when a camera is replaced at a [sample station](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#sample_station)/[camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location). Leave blank if the camera is not replaced.

(#TOC_md_standards_camera_serial_number)=

### 8.2.4 Camera Serial Number

The serial number of a particular camera, which is usually found inside the camera cover (e.g., "P900FF04152022"). The [Camera Serial Number](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_serial_number) helps in differentiating cameras placed on the same [Camera Attachment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_attachment) point (e.g., tree) and in identifying when cameras are replaced at an existing [camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location).

Referred to as "New [Camera Serial Number](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_serial_number)" on the Camera [Service/Retrieval Field Datasheet](/1_survey-guidelines/1_10.2_AppendixA-Field-Datasheets.md#datasheet_service_retrieval) when a camera is replaced at a [sample station](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#sample_station)/[camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location). Leave blank if the camera is not replaced.

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_camera_settings)=

## 8.3 Deployment - Camera Settings

(#TOC_md_standards_trigger_modes)=

### 8.3.1 Trigger Mode(s)

The camera setting(s) that determine how the camera will [trigger](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#trigger_event): by motion ("Motion Image"), at set intervals ("[Time-lapse Image](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#timelapse_image)"), and/or by video ("Video"; possible with newer [Camera Models](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_model), such as Reconyx HP2X).

Select **one** of the options from the list provided:

-   **"Motion Image"**

-   **"Time-lapse Image"**

-   **"Video"**

-   **"Motion Image + Time-lapse Image"**

-   **"Motion Image + Time-lapse Image + Video"**

-   **"Time-lapse Image + Video"**

-   **"Motion Image + Video"**

(#TOC_md_standards_video_length)=

### 8.3.2 Video Length (seconds)

The minimum video duration (in seconds) that the camera will record when [triggered](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#trigger_event) (if applicable). Leave blank if not applicable.

(#TOC_md_standards_trigger_sensitivity)=

### 8.3.3 Trigger Sensitivity

The camera setting responsible for how sensitive a camera is to activation (to "[triggering](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#trigger_event)") via the infrared and/or heat detectors (if applicable). Select one of the following [Trigger Sensitivity settings](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_trigger_sensitivity) common to most cameras (e.g., Reconyx HyperFire): "Low," "Low/Med," "Med," "Med/High," "High," "Very high." Enter "Unknown" if the Trigger Mode is set to a timer (see the [Motion Image Interval (seconds)](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_motion_image_interval) section) or if the camera does not have a [Trigger Sensitivity](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_trigger_sensitivity) setting option.

(#TOC_md_standards_photos_per_trigger)=

### 8.3.4 Photos Per Trigger

The number of photos taken each time the camera is [triggered](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#trigger_event) (integer, e.g., "1", "2", "3" etc.).

(#TOC_md_standards_motion_image_interval)=

### 8.3.5 Motion Image Interval (seconds)

The time (in seconds) between images within a multi-image [sequence](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#sequence) that occur due to motion, heat, or activation of external detector devices. The [Motion Image Interval](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_motion_image_interval) is pre-set in the camera's settings by the user, but the time at which the camera collects images because of this setting is influenced by the presence of movement or heat. For example, if the camera was set to take three images per event at a [Motion Image Interval](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_motion_image_interval) of three seconds when the camera detects motion or heat, the first image will be collected (e.g., at 09:00:00), the second image will be collected three seconds later (09:00:03), and the third will be collected three seconds after that (09:00:06). This setting differs from the [Quiet Period](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_quiet_period) in that the delay occurs between images contained within a multi-image [sequence](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#sequence), rather than between multi-image [sequence](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#sequence) (as in [Quiet Period](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_quiet_period)). If a [Motion Image Interval](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_motion_image_interval) was not set, enter "0" seconds (i.e., instantaneous).

(#TOC_md_standards_quiet_period_seconds)=

### 8.3.6 Quiet Period (seconds)

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_camera_placement)=

The user-defined camera setting which provides the time (in seconds) between shutter "[triggers](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#trigger_event)" if the camera was programmed to pause between firing initially and firing a second time. Also known as "time lag" (depending on the [Camera Make](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_make)/[Model](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_model); Palmer et al., 2018). Report as "0" if a [Quiet Period](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_quiet_period) was not set. The [Quiet Period](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_quiet_period) differs from the [Motion Image Interval](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_motion_image_interval) in that the delay occurs between multi-image [sequences](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#sequence) rather than between the images contained within multi-image [sequences](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#sequence) (as in the [Motion Image Interval](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#settings_motion_image_interval)).

### 8.4 Deployment - Camera Placement

(#TOC_md_standards_camera_height_m)=

### 8.4.1 Camera Height (m)

This is the height from the ground (below snow) to the bottom of the lens (metres; to the nearest 0.05 m).

(#TOC_md_standards_camera_direction)=

### 8.4.2 Camera Direction (degrees) (optional)

The cardinal direction that a camera faces. Ideally, cameras should face north (N; i.e. "0" degrees), or south (S; i.e., "180" degrees) if north is not possible. The [Camera Direction](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_direction) should be chosen to ensure the [Field of View (FOV)](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#field_of_view) is of the original [FOV Target Feature](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#fov_target).

(#TOC_md_standards_stake_distance)=

### 8.4.3 Stake Distance (m) (optional)

The distance from the camera to a stake (if applicable; metres; to the nearest 0.05 m). Leave blank if not applicable.

(#TOC_md_standards_fov_target_feature)=

### 8.4.4 FOV Target Feature

A specific man-made or natural feature at which the camera is aimed to maximize the detection of wildlife species or to measure the use of that feature. [FOV Target Features](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#fov_target) are important to document in case they result in detection biases. Record “None” if a [FOV Target Feature](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#fov_target) was not used and "Unknown" if not known. If “Other,” describe in the [Camera Location Comments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location_comments).

Select **one** of the options from the list provided:

-   **"Game Trail"**

-   **"Hiking Trail"**

-   **"Off-Highway Vehicle Trail"** (e.g., all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, motorbike, 4 x 4 truck)

-   **"Paved Road"**

-   **"Dirt/Gravel Road"**

-   **"Road Crossing" (e.g., overpass, underpass, or bridge)**

-   **"Railway"**

-   **"Cutline/Seismic Line"**

-   **"Transmission Line"**

-   **"Pipeline"**

-   **"Wellsite"**

-   **"Culvert"**

-   **"Beaver Dam"**

-   **"Burrow/Den"**

-   **"Nest"**

-   **"Carcass"** (not placed by the crew as [bait](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#baitlure_bait)/[lure](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#baitlure_lure))

-   **"Natural Mineral Lick"**

-   **"Rub Post"**

-   **"Other†"** (describe in [Camera Location Comments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location_comments) field)

-   **"None"** (when a [FOV Target Feature](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#fov_target) was not used)

-   **"Unknown"** (not recorded)

(#TOC_md_standards_fov_target_feature_distance)=

### 8.4.5 FOV Target Feature Distance (m) (optional)

The distance from the camera to the [FOV Target Feature](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#fov_target) (metres; to the nearest 0.05 m). Leave blank if not applicable.

(#TOC_md_standards_baitlure_type)=

### 8.4.6 Bait/Lure Type

The type of [bait](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#baitlure_bait) or [lure](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#baitlure_lure) used at a [camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location). Record “None” if a [Bait/Lure Type](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#baitlure_bait_lure_type) was not used and "Unknown" if not known. If “Other,” describe in the Deployment Comments:

Select **one** of the options from the list provided:

-   **"Scent"**
-   **"Meal"** (including carcass placed by the crew)
-   **"Bait Tree"**
-   **"Visual"**
-   **"Acoustic"**
-   **"Other‡"** (describe in [Visit Comments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#visit_comments) fields; "[Deployment Comments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_comments)" on the [Deployment Field Datasheet](/1_survey-guidelines/1_10.2_AppendixA-Field-Datasheets.md#FILES_surv_guidelines_datasheet_deployment) or "[Service/Retrieval Comments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#service_retrieval_comments)" on the [Service/Retrieval Field Datasheet](/1_survey-guidelines/1_10.2_AppendixA-Field-Datasheets.md#datasheet_service_retrieval) (if no bait or lure was used)
-   **"Unknown"** (not recorded)

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_site_characteristics)=

## 8.5 Deployment - Site Characteristics

(#TOC_md_standards_camera_location_characteristics)=

### 8.5.1 Camera Location Characteristic(s) (optional)

Record any significant features around the camera at the time of the [visit](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#visit). This may include for example, manmade or natural linear features (e.g., trails), habitat types (e.g., wetlands), wildlife structure (e.g., beaver dam).

[Camera Location Characteristic(s)](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location_characteristics) differ from [FOV Target Features](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#fov_target) in that [Camera Location Characteristic(s)](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location_characteristics) could include those not in the camera's field of view. Researchers typically record information about the environment at [camera locations](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location) to better understand how this might affect animal occurrence or Behaviour.

List all the characteristics that apply to the [camera location](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location) from the list provided below. If “Other,” describe in the Camera Location Comments. List the values alphabetically and separate each entry by a comma and space; e.g., "Building, Forest - Mixedwood, Road, Trail"):

-   **"Trail"** (e.g., game, hiking, off-highway vehicle trail)

-   **"Road"** (e.g., paved, dirt/gravel, road crossing)

-   **"Railway/Pipeline/Transmission Line"**

-   **"Cutline/Seismic Line"**

-   **"Wellsite"**

-   **"Clearcut"**

-   **"Building"**

-   **"Forest - Deciduous"**

-   **"Forest - Coniferous"**

-   **"Forest - Mixedwood"**

-   **"Forest - Undefined"**

-   **"Meadow"**

-   **"Burn"**

-   **"Agriculture"** (e.g., crop, pasture)

-   **"Shrubland"**

-   **"Beaver Dam"**

-   **"Wetland"** (e.g., bog, fen, marsh/shallow open water, swamp)

-   **"Lentic"** (i.e., standing water, e.g., lake, pond)

-   **"Lotic"** (i.e., flowing water, e.g., stream, river)

-   **"Other†"** (describe in [Camera Location Comments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_location_comments))

-   **"Unknown"** (not recorded)


(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_equipment_checks)=

### 8.6 Deployment - Equipment Checks

A [**walktest**](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#walktest) is conducted to ensure the [Camera Height](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#camera_height), tilt, etc., adequately captures the desired [detection zone](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#detection_zone) (i.e., the area (conical in shape) in which a remote camera can detect the heat signature and motion of an object (Rovero & Zimmermann, 2016). To learn more about [walktests](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#walktest) and [detection zones](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#detection_zone), refer to the [Remote Camera Survey Guidelines](https://ab-rcsc.github.io/RCSC-WildCAM_Remote-Camera-Survey-Guidelines-and-Metadata-Standards/1_survey-guidelines/1_0.1_Citation-and-Info.html) (RCSC et al., 2024).

(#TOC_md_standards_walktest_distance)=

### 8.6.1 Walktest Distance (m) (optional)

The horizontal distance from the camera at which the [crew](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#crew) performs the [walktest](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#walktest) (metres; to the nearest 0.05 m). Leave blank if not applicable.

(#TOC_md_standards_walktest_height)=

### 8.6.2 Walktest Height (m) (optional)

The vertical distance (from the camera at which the [crew](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#crew) performs the [walktest](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#walktest) (metres; to the nearest 0.05 m). Leave blank if not applicable.

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_image_set_information)=

## Deployment - Image Set Information

(#TOC_md_standards_image_set_start_date_time)=

### 8.7.1 Image Set Start Date Time (DD-MMM-YYYY HH:MM:SS)

The date and time of the **first** image or video collected during a specific [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) (e.g., "17-Jan-2018 12:00:02"). The [Image Set Start Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#image_set_start_date_time) may not coincide with the [Deployment Start Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_start_date_time). Recording this field allows users to confirm the first date and time a camera was active (reliable if [time-lapse images](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#timelapse_image) were collected; especially valuable if the user scheduled a start delay).

(#TOC_md_standards_image_set_end_date_time)=

### 8.7.2 Image Set End Date Time (DD-MMM-YYYY HH:MM:SS)

The date and time of the last image or video collected during a specific [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) (e.g., "27-Jan-2019 22:10:05"). The [Image Set Start Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#image_set_start_date_time) may not coincide with the [Deployment End Date Time](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment_end_date_time). Recording this field allows users to account for [deployments](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment) that were conducted but for which no data was found, and to confirm the last date and time a camera was active (if functioning) if no images or videos were captured prior to service/retrieval (especially valuable if users did not collect [time-lapse images](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#timelapse_image) or if the camera malfunctioned).

(#TOC_md_standards_deployment_image_count)=

### 8.7.3 Deployment Image Count (optional)

The total number of images collected during the [deployment](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#deployment), including [false triggers](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#false_trigger) (i.e., empty images with no wildlife or human present) and those [triggered](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#trigger_event) by a [time-lapse](/3_glossary/3_Glossary.md#timelapse_image) setting (if applicable). This field is important to record to confirm that no data has been lost during file transfers etc.
