---
jupytext:
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.17.2
    jupytext_version: 6.5.4
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
  
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 300
---
(#TOC-metadata-standards-sample-station_camera-location)=
# 7.0 Sample Station/Camera Location

A **sample station** refers to a grouping of two or more non-independent [camera locations](#Heirch_Camera_location), such as when cameras are [clustered](#sampledesign_clustered) or [paired](#Sampledesign_paired). For example, multiple cameras in close proximity to one another for individual animal identification or on/off-trail comparison could be considered a [sample station](#Heirch_Sample_station).

Each [sample station](#Heirch_Sample_station) should have its own unique [Sample Station ID](#ID_Sample_station_ID) (grouping ID). Within a [sample station](#Heirch_Sample_station), each camera will have a unique [Camera Location ID](#ID_Camera_location) and location (unless multiple cameras are on the same [camera attachment](#camera-attachment) point; e.g., tree).

(#TOC-metadata-standards-sample-station-id)=
## 7.1 Sample Station ID

A sequential alphanumeric identifier for each [camera location](#Heirch_Camera_location) within a grouping of two more non-independent [camera locations](#Heirch_Camera_location) when cameras are deployed in clusters, pairs or arrays (e.g., "SS1" in "SS1_BH1", "SS1_BH2", "SS1_BH3" etc.). Record as "NULL" if this field is not applicable.

(#TOC-metadata-standards-camera-location-id)=
## 7.2 Camera Location ID

A unique alphanumeric identifier for the location where a single camera was placed (e.g., "BH1", "BH2").

(#TOC-metadata-standards-latitude-camera-location)=
## 7.3 Latitude Camera Location

The latitude of the [camera location](#Heirch_Camera_location) in decimal degrees to five decimal places (e.g., 53.78136). Enter "NULL" if recording the [Northing Camera Location](#Coord_Northing_camera_location) instead.

(#TOC-metadata-standards-longitude-camera-location)=
## 7.4 Longitude Camera Location

The longitude of the [camera location](#Heirch_Camera_location) in decimal degrees to five decimal places (e.g., -113.46067). Enter "NULL" if recording the [Easting Camera Location](#Coord_Easting_camera_location) instead.

(#TOC-metadata-standards-northing-camera-location)=
## 7.5 Northing Camera Location

The northing UTM coordinate of the [camera location](#Heirch_Camera_location) (e.g., 5962006). Record using the NAD83 datum. Enter "NULL" if recording the [Latitude Camera Location](#Coord_Latitude_camera_location) instead.

(#TOC-metadata-standards-easting-camera-location)=
## 7.6 Easting Camera Location

The easting UTM coordinate of the [camera location](#Heirch_Camera_location) (e.g., 337875). Record using the NAD83 datum. Enter "NULL" if recording the [Longitude Camera Location](#Coord_Longitude_camera_location) instead.

(#TOC-metadata-standards-utm-zone-camera-location)=
## 7.7 UTM Zone Camera Location

This alphanumeric field applies if reporting [camera locations](#Heirch_Camera_location) in easting and northing UTM coordinates. The UTM zone refers to the coordinate system that divides geographic areas into north-south zones. In Alberta the UTM zones are either 11, 12, or TTM. Enter all other UTM zones in the [Camera Location Comments](#Comments_Camera_location_comments) field (e.g., zones 7-10 for British Columbia), or use [Latitude Camera Location](#Coord_Latitude_camera_location) and [Longitude Camera Location](#Coord_Longitude_camera_location) instead of UTM coordinates.

(#TOC-metadata-standards-gps-unit-accuracy-m)=
## 7.8 GPS Unit Accuracy (m)

The margin of error of the GPS unit used to record spatial information (e.g., "5" m), such as the coordinates of the [camera location](#Heirch_Camera_location). On most GPS units (e.g., Garmin) this information is provided on the unit's satellite information page. [GPS Unit Accuracy](#GPS_unit_accuracy) may vary with the make and model of the GPS unit, surrounding vegetation, infrastructure, atmospheric interference, etc.

(#TOC-metadata-standards-camera-location-comments-optional)=
## 7.9 Camera Location Comments (optional)

Describe any additional details about a [camera location](#Heirch_Camera_location) (e.g., in UTM Zone 7 in British Columbia; aspen-dominated; type of "Off-Highway Vehicle Trail" used as a [FOV Target Feature](#FOV_target)).

If you selected "Other" from the [FOV Target Feature](#FOV_target) field, provide information about that feature (e.g., 2x4 m high woody debris piles within a cutblock).
