---
jupytext:
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.11.5
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
  
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 300
---
# Image/Sequence

The **image/sequence level** provides information on the data for an image (individual photo) or sequence of related images (e.g., images that are grouped as part of the same trigger "event").

An **image** may be part of a multi-image sequence.

A **sequence** refers to a user-defined group of images or video clips that denote a single "detection event". Often camera users choose a certain time threshold ("sequence definition") to define independent detection events; (e.g., 30 minutes (O'Brien et al., 2003; Gerber et al., 2010; Kitamura et al., 2010; Samejima et al., 2012) or 1 hour (e.g., Tobler et al., 2008; Rovero and Marshall, 2009)). This threshold should be recorded in the Survey Design Description field, if applicable.

When a sequence Event Type is used, only enter data once for the sequence of images (not for each unique image) and use the first image of the sequence as the Sequence ID, as this is the time of the first detection.

Refer to the [Data Management section](#_heading=h.ib6xjmgnzraf) for information on image processing software, and recommendations on data file structure and naming conventions.

## Image ID

A unique alphanumeric file name for the image. It is highly recommended that users develop a photo naming convention prior to entering data. It is important to include (at a minimum) the camera location, date, time, and image number when generating an Image ID to avoid duplicate file names. For example, the Deployment ID and image number would not be unique for the same deployment within Reconynx overflow file subfolders (i.e., when the number of images exceeds 9,999, another folder is created [e.g., 101MEDIA] and the numbers in the image file names begin again at IMG_001).

We recommend using either of the following naming conventions for Image IDs:

1.  "Deployment ID"*"Camera_Serial Number"*"Image_Sequence_Date_Time"\_"Image Number" (e.g., "BH1_17-JUL-2018_P900FF04152022_22-JUL-2018 10:34:22_IMG_100"), or
2.  "Deployment ID"*"Image_Sequence_Date_Time"*"Image Number" (e.g., "BH1_17-JUL-2018_22-JUL-2018 10:34:22_IMG_100")

The file name used to create the Image ID should ideally match the file name of the original image.

## Sequence ID

A unique alphanumeric for a multi-image sequence.

The Sequence ID should ideally consist of the Deployment ID and the names of the first and last images and videos in the sequence (separated by "*") (i.e., "Deployment ID"*"IMG\_#[name of first image in sequence]"*"IMG*\#[name of last image in sequence]". For example, if a particular sequence contains five images, the Sequence ID might be "BH1_22-JUL-2018 IMG_001-IMG_005". If "IMG\_" prefixes are used to create the Sequence ID, they ideally should match the names of the original photos.

Enter "NULL" if this field is not applicable.

Even though the first image of a sequence is the only image used to derive the Sequence ID, the remaining images typically also include useful information (e.g., images of all individuals in a group). Therefore, it is ideal to archive all of the images from a sequence. If it is not possible to submit all of the images, users should ideally submit the image(s) from a sequence that best represents the sequence (e.g., those that can be used to verify the Species and Individial Count).

## Image/Sequence Date Time (DD-MMM-YYYY HH:MM:SS)

The date and time of an image, or the image chosen to represent the sequence. Depending on the Event Type, Image/Sequence Date Time may be reported for an individual image, or the first or representative image (i.e., the image with the most information). For example, if three images were included in a sequence, but the Sex Class could only be discerned in the second image [all else remaining equal], the second image would be the best representative image of the sequence.

Record the Image/Sequence Date Time as "DD-MMM-YYYY HH:MM:SS" (e.g., 22-JUL-2018 11:02:02).

The Image/Sequence Date Time differs from the Image Set Start Date Time which refers to the first image or video collected during a deployment.

## Analyst

The first and last names of the individual who provided the observation data point (Species identification and associated information). If there are multiple Analysts for an observation, enter the primary Analyst.

## Species

The capitalized common name of the Species being categorized ("tagged") in the Tag, Image or Sequence (e.g., "COYOTE" or "COMMON GOLDENEYE"). If there is more than one wildlife Species present in an image/sequence, data for each Species should be entered on a unique row but with the same \<#\_heading=h.1rvwp1q\>Image ID or Sequence ID (reporting as [E](#_heading=h.1pxezwc)vent_Type = "Tag").

For detections where you are unsure of the specific Species, report the level of lowest taxonomic ranking known (e.g., "CLASS," "ORDER," "FAMILY," "GENUS"), followed by the scientific name of the taxa.

For example, for a detection of an individual that is in the Canidae family, but for which the Genus or Species or unclear, report "FAMILY CANIDAE." Refer to the Species_Crosswalk table for ease of reference.

If no Species is present (i.e. blank or empty image), enter "NONE".

## Individual Count

The number of unique individuals being categorized. This may be recorded as the total number of individuals, or according to Age Class and/or Sex Class.

## Age Class and Sex Class

The age and sex classification of an individual or multiple individuals (if the classification is the same) being categorized.

Select one **Age Class** from the following:

-   **"Adult"** (animals that are old enough to breed; reproductively mature)

-   **"Juvenile"** (animals in their first summer, with clearly juvenile features (e.g., spots); mammals older than neonates but that still require parental care)

-   **"Subadult"** (animals older than a "Juvenile" but not yet an "Adult"; a "Subadult" may be further classified into "Young of the Year" or "Yearling")

-   **"Subadult - Young of Year"** (animals less than one year old; born in the previous year's spring, but has not yet lived through a winter season; between "Juvenile" and "Yearling")

-   **"Subadult - Yearling"** (animals approximately one year old; has lived through one winter season; between "Young of Year" and "Adult")

-   **"Unknown"**

Select one **Sex Class** from the following:

-   **"Male"**

-   **"Female"**

-   **"Unknown"**

If there is more than one Age Class or Sex Class in an image/sequence, users can enter either:

1.  each unique Age/Sex Class combination as a unique row (Event Type = "Image" or "Sequence" or
2.  each unique combination within the same row under an appropriate field (Event Type = "Tag")

For example, if an image/sequence contains 6 elk, 2 of which are adult females, 3 of which are juveniles of unknown sex and one of which is an adult male, the data could be entered as 3 unique rows, each with the same Image/Sequence Date Time and unique identifier (Image ID or Sequence ID), where:

-   the first row: Count = 2, Age Class = Adult, and Sex Class = Female
-   a second row: Count = 3, Age Class = Juvenile, and Sex Class = Unknown
-   a third row is Count = 1, Age Class = Adult, and Sex Class = Male

Alternatively, the same data could be entered in one single row as:

-   Count = 6, Age Class = Blank, Sex Class = Blank, Adult Males = 1, Adult Females = 2, and Juveniles -- Unclassified Sex = 3.

Deciding how to enter the data is at the user's discretion. However, the recommended approach to entering data where unique individuals are identified (or the Behaviours of individuals are identified) is to enter data for each individual as a unique row.

## Behaviour (optional)

The behaviour of an individual or multiple individuals (if the classification is the same) being categorized.

Select one of the options from the list provided:

-   **"Travelling"**

-   **"Standing"**

-   **"Running"**

-   **"Bedding"**

-   **"Drinking"**

-   **"Feeding/Foraging"**

-   **"Territorial Display"**

-   **"Rutting/Mating"**

-   **"Vigilant"**

-   **"Inspecting Camera"**

-   **"Inspecting (Non-specified)"**

-   **"Unknown"**

-   **"Other§"** (describe in Image/Sequence Comments field)

-   **"Multiple§"** (describe in Image/Sequence Comments field; e.g., "Behaviour[Standing,Vigilant]")

-   **"NULL"** (not applicable or did not collect)

If observing a group of individuals, record the Behaviour of all the individuals in the group or enter the Behaviour of each animal as a unique row (see example in the [Age Class and Sex Class section](#age-class-and-sex-class) above).

If an animal is performing multiple Behaviours, select "Multiple§," and include all the Behaviours in the Image/Sequence Comments as a comma delimited list. To help parse out this information later most easily, we recommend using a format that includes a header followed by the behaviour(s), e.g., "Behaviour[Inspecting Camera,Travelling]".

## Animal ID (optional)

A unique ID for an animal that can be uniquely identified (e.g., marked in some way). More than one unique individual can be identified in an image; each individual should be entered as a unique row. If Animal IDs were not collected, enter "NULL."

## Human Transport Mode/Activity (optional)

The activity performed, or mode of transportation used, by a human observed (e.g., hiker, skier, all terrain vehicle etc.). This text field should be populated when data on humans (in addition to wildlife) are collected.

Select **one** of the options from the list provided:

-   **"Activity - Walking"**

-   **"Activity - Hiking"** (e.g., backpacker)

-   **"Activity - Running"**

-   **"Activity - Cycling"** (e.g., non-motorized or e-bike)

-   **"Activity - Skiing"**

-   **"Activity - Snowshoeing"**

-   **"Activity- Fishing"**

-   **"Activity - Hunting"**

-   **"Activity - Unspecified"**

-   **"Transport - Horse/Mule"**

-   **"Transport - Off-Highway Vehicle"** (e.g., all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, motorbike, snowmobile, 4 x 4 truck)

-   **"Transport - Passenger Vehicle"** (e.g., car, truck without 4x4)

-   **"Transport - Large Commercial Vehicle/Heavy Equipment"** (e.g., logging truck, semi-truck, bus)

-   **"Transport - Unspecified"**

-   **"Activity/Transport - Other§"** (describe in Image/Sequence Comments field)

-   **"NULL"** (not applicable)

Where there are multiple individuals and transport modes within a tag, image, or sequence, enter the data for each individual mode as a unique row.

## Image/Sequence Comments (optional)

Describe any additional data about the image or sequence.

If you selected the "Multiple§" option from the Behaviour field, enter all the Behaviours here (e.g., "Behaviour[Inspecting Camera,Travelling]").

## Image Trigger Mode (optional)

The type of trigger mode used to capture the image as reported in the image Exif data. This field is categorical; record "Unknown" if not known.

Data should be entered as one of the following:

-   **"Motion Detection"**

-   **"Time Lapse"**

-   **"CodeLoc Not Entered"**

-   **"External Sensor"**

-   **"Unknown"**

## Image Sequence (optional)

The order of the image in a rapid-fire sequence as reported in the image Exif data (text; e.g., "1 of 1" or "1 of 3"). This field is in text format; record "Unknown" if not known.

## Image Infrared Illuminator (optional)

The infrared illuminator setting can be enabled, if applicable to the Camera Make/Model, to obtain greater visibility at night by producing infrared light. Record the **Image Infrared Illuminator** as reported in the image Exif data. This field is categorical; record "Unknown" if not known.

Data should be entered as **one** of the following:

-   **"On"**

-   **"Off"**

-   **"Unknown"**

## Image Flash Output (optional)

The **Flash Output** setting determines the level of intensity of the flash (if enabled). Record the **Image Flash Output** as reported in the image Exif data (e.g., "Flash Did Not Fire", "Auto"). This field is in text format; record "Unknown" if not known.
